WE'RE HERE WITH FIRST LADY
MICHELLE OBAMA.
THE CAMPAIGN IS GOING ON RIGHT
NOW.
WE'VE GOT THE TWO CANDIDATES OUT
THERE WHO HAVE THEIR OWN AGENDAS
AND THEIR SPOUSES HAVE TO SORT
OF GO ALONG WITH WHATEVER THIS
PERSON IS DOING.
DO YOU HAVE ANY SYMPATHY FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO GO THERE AND
STAND BY THE PERSON RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT?
>> UH, NO, NOT REALLY.
>> Stephen: NO?
>> NO, BECAUSE IF-- YOU KNOW,
YOU HAVE TO BE, YOU KNOW, IN IT.
IF YOU'RE IN IT, AND IF YOU
DON'T AGREE, YOU SHOULD HAVE
AGREED BEFORE THEY RAN, YOU
KNOW.
BOTTOM LINE IS, IF YOU DIDN'T
AGREE WITH WHAT BARACK WAS
SAYING, I WOULD NOT SUPPORT HIS
RUN.
SO I STAND THERE PROUDLY, AND I
HOPE THEY ARE, TOO, STANDING
WITH THEIR SPOUSES PROUDLY.
SO NO SYMPATHY.
>> Stephen: BUT THE THINGS
THEY HAVE TO GO THROUGH.
FOR INSTANCE, MELANIA TRUMP WAS
CRITICIZED FOR USING WHAT TURNED
OUT TO BE A PORTION OF YOUR
SPEECH.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
BUT DO YOU HAVE ANY SYMPATHY,
BECAUSE THERE ARE PEOPLE AROUND
HER CREATING THINGS.
AND, YOU KNOW, I HAVE SOME
SYMPATHY FOR HER.
COW UNDERSTAND HOW THAT MIGHT BE
SYMPATHETIC FOR WHAT HAPPENED TO
HER?
YEAH, THAT WAS TOUGH.
( LAUGHTER )
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: LET'S MOVE ON.
LET'S MOVE ON.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S TALK ABOUT "LET GIRLS
LEARN."
SO 62 MILLION YOUNG WOMEN AROUND
THE WORLD DO NOT HAVE ACCESS TO
QUALITY EDUCATION.
WHAT IS "LET GIRLS LEARN" DOING
TO TRY TO IMPROVE THAT
SITUATION?
BECAUSE THAT'S A HUGE PROBLEM.
>> IT'S HUGE.
PART OF IT IS BRINGING AWARENESS
TO THE ISSUE.
NOT JUST INTERNATIONALLY, BUT
HERE AT HOME AS WELL.
AND WE'VE DONE A LOT IN A YEAR
AND A HALF TO GALVANIZE
RESOURCES, EXPERTISE.
UNITED STATES HAS INVESTED
MILLIONS OF ADDITIONAL RESOURCE.
WE'VE PARTNERED WITH JAPAN AND
THE U.K. TO INCREASE INVESTMENTS
IN GIRLS' EDUCATION.
THE THE THE WORLD BANK GROUP IS
INVESTING OVER $1 BILLION IN
GIRLS' EDUCATION.
( APPLAUSE ).
>> Stephen: SOME OF THESE--
SOME OF THE REASONS-- I ASSUME--
AND YOU CAN CORRECT ME IF I'M
WRONG-- I ASSUME SOME OF THE
REASONS ARE THERE ARE SORT OF
CULTURAL OBSTACLES TO GIRLS
BEING VALUED AS EDUCATED MEMBERS
OF SOCIETY.
HOW DO YOU-- HOW DO YOU
EFFECTIVELY CHANGE THOSE
CULTURAL OBSTACLES, RATHER THAN
JUST PROVIDING OPPORTUNITY, HOW
DO YOU MAKE SURE THOSE
OPPORTUNITIES ARE TAKEN
ADVANTAGE OF IN COUNTRIES THAT
MAY NOT ORDINARILY OFFER THEM?
>> THAT'S WHAT WE'RE WORKING ON.
AND WE KNOW WE HAVE TO BE ON THE
GROUND.
BECAUSE YOU CAN'T CHANGE CULTURE
IF YOU'RE NOT A PART OF THE
CULTURE.
AND THE PEACE CORPS HAS PLAYED
AN IMPORTANT ROLE.
WE HAVE PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS
WORKING ON "LET GIRLS LEARN"
INITIATIVES ON THE GROUND, IN A
COMMUNITY, IN A VILLAGE, FOR UP
TO TO TO YEARS, REALLY
UNDERSTANDING THE CULTURAL
ISSUES, DEVELOPING LEADERSHIP
TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR NOT JUST
THE GIRLS BUT THEIR PARENTS.
SO YOU HAVE TO TAKE EACH
COMMUNITY WHERE THEY ARE.
THERE'S NO ONE SOLUTION TO THAT.
THIS PROBLEM, WHICH IS WHAT
MAKES IT SO COMPLICATED-- EVERY
COMMUNITY IS DIFFERENT.
SO AWARENESS AND ENGAGEMENT IS
CRITICAL.
BUT WE'RE GRATEFUL TO THE PEACE
CORPS VOLUNTEERS OUT THERE DOING
THE HARD WORK ON THE GROUND.
>> Stephen: I UNDERSTAND,
RIGHT HERE IN THE AUDIENCE--
AND, JIM, IF WE COULD GET A SHOT
OF THIS-- THERE ARE SOME YOUNG
LADIES IN THE FRONT ROW HERE.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: WHO ACTUALLY HAVE
BEEN PART OF THIS PROGRAM FROM
MALAWI, JORDAN.
PAKISTAN.
( APPLAUSE )
( CHEERS )
>> THEY-- THEY SPOKE SO
ELOQUENTLY.
THEY TOLD THEIR STORIES AT AN
EVENT THAT YOU HELPED TO HOST
YESTERDAY HERE.
>> Stephen: ABSOLUTELY
BEAUTIFUL EVENT HERE IN NEW YORK
CITY.
>> ON BROADWAY.
TO HELP RAISE AWARENESS.
WE HELD IT FOR THE SPOUSES OF
THE WORLD LEADERS OF THE U.N.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
IT WAS A MIXTURE OF STORIES AND,
YOU KNOW, INSPIRATION FROM THESE
GIRLS, AND EMPOWERING MUSIC FROM
SOME OF THE TOP BROADWAY STARS.
AND WE HAD THIS HAND SUSPECT
YOUNG MAN HERE HELPING US KEEP
IT ALL TOGETHER.
AND I'M SO GRATEFUL FOR YOUR
SUPPORT, NOT JUST YESTERDAY, BUT
ON EVERYTHING YOU DO ON ISSUES
THAT YOU DON'T JUST SPEAK OUT
ON.
YOU DON'T JUST MAKE US LAUGH.
BUT YOU KNOW ABOUT THESE ISSUES,
AND YOU CARE ABOUT THEM.
AND THAT'S WHY I LIKE YOU.
>> Stephen: THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
IT WAS AN HONOR TO BE INVITED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THERE'S A DOCUMENTARY, THERE'S A
DOCUMENTARY THAT CNN IS GOING TO
HAVE ON CALLED: "WE WILL RISE"
A CNN FILM THAT FOLLOWED YOU ON
A TRIP TO LIBERIA.
>> MARAKESH AND MADRID.
>> Stephen: AND WE HAVE A CAN
CLIP RIGHT HERE.
JIM.
>> YOU'RE IMPORTANT IN YOUR OWN
RIGHT.
PEOPLE WANT AND NEED TO VALUE
YOU BECAUSE OF WHO YOU ARE
BECAUSE OF YOUR STORY, BECAUSE
OF YOUR CHALLENGES.
THAT'S WHAT MAKES YOU UNIQUE.
YOU KNOW?
YOU WANT TO BE DIFFERENT.
YOU WANT TO BE SPECIAL.
THE FACT THAT YOU'VE BEEN ABLE
TO OVERCOME CHALLENGES-- AND
THIS IS WHAT I ALWAYS THOUGHT--
THAT MADE ME SMARTER.
THAT MADE ME BETTER, RIGHT?
BECAUSE I COULD OVERCOME THINGS
THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO WERE IN
THE THE SAME POSITION NEVER HAD
TO OVERCOME.
>> YEAH.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: WELL, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR BEING HERE.
IT'S ALWAYS AN HONOR TO TALK TO
YOU.
AND I HOPE WE HAVE THE CHANCE TO
HAVE YOU BACK AGAIN ONCE YOU
LEAVE THE WHITE HOUSE, BECAUSE I
KNOW THAT YOU AND YOUR HUSBAND
WILL NOT STOP TRYING TO MAKE A
CHANGE IN THE WORLD.
>> NO, ABSOLUTELY.
>> Stephen: THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, STEPHEN.
>> Stephen: "WE WILL RISE:
MICHELLE OBAMA'S MISSION TO
EDUCATE GIRLS AROUND THE WORLD"
PREMIERES OCTOBER 11 ON CNN.
TO FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN HELP
SUPPORT GIRLS' EDUCATION, GO TO
letgirlslearn.gov.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK WITH AMERICA
FERRERA.